Describe the routine of getting... The band was, I'd like a fresh coffee, please, if you would.
Want a little fresh coffee?
No, I'm doing fine.
And a little cream and sugar for me.
Well, you all got the cream and sugar over there?
Yes.
The band, as I said earlier, was extra demanding, particularly in the fall.
And I was going to try to swim on the swimming team, swim, the band, and study, and I couldn't do it.
I wasn't up to doing all those.
Later on, I might have been, but I was still learning to study that freshman year, so the band took so much time, I said, I'm not happy with this.
Y'all worked out five days a week?
Five days a week, two hours a day.
I mean, the band took extra, extra time.
A young man named Ed Cooper was a sophomore, junior.
Well, the ones I remember, of course, were Jim Eller and Cooper and my fish buddies.
I stayed friends with them anytime you go through the freshman year.
I was friends with those guys, but I became similar friends with the sophomore buddies because you're not that much different between a freshman and a sophomore down there.
It's a little better, but not a lot.
I remember Ed Cooper, but I don't remember him well.
What about core trips that first year?
Oh, they were fun.
Where'd you go?
We went to, I think the first year went to Austin and Fort Worth, as I remember.
And that was a great place.
How'd you get there?
In the band, I guess we went in the bus.
Later you had to hitchhike.
Then later on I finally got a car.
But we went in the band bus.
When you all marched down?
Congress Avenue or wherever.
How did the people on the sidewalk respond?
Mixed.
Austin was the worst place to go.
And you'd always have a bunch of them picking on men in uniform.
There was always a lot of fights there.
And they were always outnumbered.
So Austin was a little bit intimidating.
Everywhere else was fast.
And describe the routine for a freshman band member on football home game Saturday.
Got up and did what all day?
He probably had.
I can't remember if we practiced that morning or not.
But most of us, we had to march with the main band.
But maybe not everybody every time.
then you had to march into the band you know if it's an afternoon home game and you were pretty well occupied with you had other stuff you had military activities saturday morning before the game i don't remember what they were so much but you were you didn't have time off saturday and then you went to child and you marched to the game and after the game you were generally free unless you were walking the bullring i walked the bullring
all my freshman year.
And some of those drowned out, some of that stuff I started early.
I had a little too much spirit.
My freshman year, actually, I think I had the first three weekends.
I didn't walk it when I went on a court trip, but after that, I walked it the whole time.
Did you have any dates that first year?
Not really.
The guys that had girlfriends closer to home, like they were Houston or Fort Worth, they might have some girlfriends coming down, but I never had a date until junior, I think.
And so, well, I just didn't.
We had, I think one time we had a bunch of girls from high school, a friend of mine coming down, and we played kick the can by an old abandoned church there when we were sophomores.
We were pretty innocent those days, I guess.
The MSC, brand new.
It was a haven.
It was a haven when you weren't on the bullring or somewhere else.
But they did keep us busy, and obviously that's the right thing to have done, too.
But it was new, and it was impressive, and it was kind of like heaven in a way.
It was the place to go.
But the post office, we had that old post office that's still open at the north gate.
You went to get the mail.
We didn't get to go to MSC very often.
for whatever reason.
Maybe it just wasn't time.
In fact, I remember my senior year, I'd go to MSC and eat and study sometime just because I'd never gotten too much before then.
And Guyon Hall was... It was open, yeah.
And we had, there was occasional movies, but the movies at Guyon Hall, that was more sophomore and junior years.
But because I was campused and walking to Bullring, I couldn't even go to the movie because you have to go sign in.
I was involved indirectly in the theft of the Baylor bear.
Oh.
And so I never got a hold of the bear, but I was one of the group that was trying to, and we all got campus.
And so you couldn't even go to the movie.
You go halfway to the movie and then you have to go sign in and you miss part of the movie.
Being on campus probably made it more miserable than otherwise.
Walking the bullring.
That took care of my spare time.
All right.
You were doing all this studying in your room.
Yeah.
Describe your room and what was in it that freshman year.
Well, those rooms are still the same.
They're a little bitty room.
They were efficient.
You had a lavatory like here.
You had double bunks on this side.
About five, six feet over here, you had a lavatory.
And then you had a desk on each side of the bed and one beer drawer between you and one closet.
I think one closet.
But we didn't have a lot of clothes, and you had all mostly military clothes.
And you sent the laundry, so it was adequate.
It was always hot.
In the winter it wasn't, but spring and fall, it was hot.
No air conditioning.
You could have a fan.
So that room was work.
I mean, when you're in the room, you were sleeping or studying, and that was about it.
A little bit of BSing, but not that much.
As you look back on those, particularly those first two years, where were the Aggie students from?
What kind of geography and income background?
I think it was probably fairly varied.
They were a lot from the cities as they are today, San Antonio, Houston, and Dallas.
A few from Austin.
I think there was probably more boys in agriculture then than now.
I think we had a much larger rural makeup of smaller towns.
West Texas, South Texas.
Even at that time, we had a good many Hispanic boys, which I had always been pretty good friends with Hispanic guys, and so that was a good mix.
They had a few that had military backgrounds, their parents.
But a lot of ags and engineers, that's basically what we were then, not nearly as broad a base school and a lot of small towns.
I imagine 40-50% were small towns, which was probably the demographic makeup at the time, where today I imagine it's probably 80% large towns or more.
Now, I think I know the answer to this one, but did the student's family background income matter much as to whether or not he was?
No, it never did.
I guess that's true in the military.
If you look at the military, it truly integrated the black people into the service, and so they did such a beautiful job of doing it because ranks were the classification.
Outside of your rank, there's no other.
Now, almost everybody had a nickname, didn't they?
A lot did.
A lot had nicknames.
A lot came with nicknames.
Nicknames were more popular then.
In my dad's day, everybody had a nickname.
In my day, a good many had.
What was yours?
Mine was Clady always.
At Fort Stockton, they called me Maria Gonzalez, but that was another story.
But did you become Clady at A&M?
No, I was always Clady.
You were Clady when you got there.
I didn't have another nickname there.
But a lot of people had nicknames.
Most of them they brought with them, as I remember.
What about the typical A&M students' attitude toward work?
They had a good work ethic, and I think they still do.
I think they still do.
I taught school there for six years, from 83 to 89.
There was a few that go to sleep, a few lazy, but mostly they were there to get an education.
And they came from working backgrounds, by and large.
All right, now, you're there as the Korean War is getting started.
The Korean War broke out at Christmas.
About the time we got to school, it broke out.
And then the Chinese came into the war about Christmastime.
And so that was another burden that we had that other young men have had.
Do we stay in school?
Do we go ahead and join the volunteer?
And I think most of us said, let's get a commission.
Let's go ahead and finish up.
And that was...
the attitude that we took, and I think most people took, which maybe is one less notch patriotism than my dad's age.
When there was war, they volunteered then.
In our day, we said, well, let's go ahead.
We're in the military.
We're training.
Let's get our education first.
Coming back, bringing the freshmen back to the campus, put everybody in the same routine so that every freshman and sophomore was in the Corps.
Except the vets, returning vets were not.
And they lived over in?
They were scattered.
Some lived off campus.
They had some dorms for vets that were across the parade field from where the MSC is now.
I forget the dorm, but there were a number of vets there.
And then the vets also had the housing out on the way to Bryan.
That's all been torn down, but there were a lot of vet housing in that day.
What did you and your buddies do the first year or so for a good time?
Well, we'd go try to leave town, which I didn't get to do because I was campus that first year.
But we'd go to Fort Worth, Dallas, Houston, or wherever you had high school friends generally.
Most guys went to visit their high school buddies at what school they went to.
So I went some to Austin to visit with some of my friends at the University.
Fort Worth, there was some girlfriend, not girlfriend, but friend girls kind of at Fort Worth.
And that was fun.
The court trips were a good time.
Of course, you know, if you'd have some time off, you'd go have a beer bus somewhere.
That was pretty common.
Well, there were two places.
The Clay Pits was where we'd have a company beer bust.
And you'd have a company beer bust every year.
And that was at the Clay Pits one time, and then pretty close to A&M another time.
I forget the name of that.
That was always fun, the beer bust.
Who paid for that, the beer?
Did everybody chip in?
Well, everybody had a pitch in, something like that.
I know everybody got to go, and I don't remember specifically.
How much beer?
All we could drink, I think.
Is that right?
Yeah, a beer keg.
And if somebody had a little too much, how did he get back to the campus?
Well, they always had too much.
And the younger the kids had too much more than the older guys.
Them getting the older guys drunk was part of it, I think.
I think you had, we didn't have A&M buses or anything.
I think you just had cars or something.
And the clay pits were south of College Station, west of?
I think they were toward Nacogdoches, but I'm not sure.
But they had, so you could go swimming.
You'd swim and then drink beer and lay on the beach.
And of course, all male, naturally.
And was it skinny dipping?
Yeah, I imagine it was.
Maybe we had bathing suits.
We probably had bathing suits.
And it was done at dark.
It was done at like an afternoon.
Oh, afternoon.
Yeah.
Oh, OK.
The beer busts were generally afternoons.
OK.
Now, was Uncle Ed's there then?
I don't think so.
It was his last name check, H-Y-R-D-Y-L-C-K-A, so it became hard liquors.
Hard liquors, no.
Okay.
There weren't really joints there.
You know, we didn't have a lot of money.
Mostly that was in a period of the 50s.
You'd just come out of World War II.
The parents didn't have a lot of money, so the people down there, there wasn't...
You didn't have money to throw around.
So we might go to the bridge and buy a fifth of the cheapest whiskey we could get and split it among eight or ten of us.
But there wasn't money to throw around.
Later generations, their parents did well and they had more money.
But we didn't have money like the kids now.
Nobody did.
You said you bought a car beginning your sophomore year, and you lived in the new dorm area then?
Yeah, sophomore year we went to the new dorm area.
To Duncan.
And were there parking stickers then?
Well, you know, there was plenty of parking places.
I parked, and it was right across from the dorm.
You know, the street on the dorm, I parked right there.
There weren't many cars.
I was one of the few that had a car, and I'd made the money farming cotton.
And I had the money to buy a car, and I didn't intend to do it, but that 36 hours said, I believe it's time to get a car.
Did you worry about it ever being stolen?
No.
Now, my bicycle got stolen, but I always knew where to go get it.
Hart Hall would always have it.
What were the rules about lending a car?
Did anybody bug you about borrowing a car?
No.
You know, we had the campus cops, but they were mostly...
tied to guys drowning out or something like that, mischief.
I don't think they had serious problems then.
The School of 7,000, all male, the day before drugs and those kind of problems came about.
So we were probably, you know, a pretty simple group.
In hindsight, we didn't have a lot of money.
We had to work.
Nearly all of the men that went into the military, we had to, one form or another.
So in hindsight, we'd do a lot of beer drinking, a lot of talking, but that's about all we got done.
How common was it for a student to have either beer or whiskey in his room?
Oh, you didn't have it.
It wasn't allowed.
It was not allowed at all.
Smoking.
Did they smoke in the dorm?
I think so.
What was the favorite brands?
Favorite brands were probably Camels and
I didn't start smoking until I went to A&M, and I wish I hadn't.
I did quit after 10 years.
Lucky's?
Lucky Strikes and Camels would have been the two.
And yes, I think we did smoke in the dorm.
I don't think there was a lot of smoking.
I don't remember a lot.
I think the guys smoked.
Any pipes and cigars?
Yeah, probably some, but not...
Maybe pipes more than no cigars that I remember.
Snuff, chewing tobacco?
I don't think there was much snuff in it.
Did you and your buddies even know the word marijuana?
No, no.
This wasn't there.
It was what the lower, lowest, low class might do.
And there just wasn't any drugs there.
And how fortunate we were that we didn't have to, you know, we weren't diverted like so many young people had gotten caught with that.
Now, the campus administration then, who was the president when you got there?
M.T.
Harrington.
What did you all think of Dr. Harrington?
He's a good man.
But, you know, he's kind of like God way up there, you know?
And then one of the stories we talk about some, the bull,
was Boatner.
Boatner was the commandant.
Hayden Boatner.
And he was then, he left A&M, and he cleaned out that island.
I'm not sure you've been told about that, where the captured Koreans kind of rebelled.
Well, he went over there and straightened that out pretty quick, and we all said, well, hell yeah, because he's used to running a prison camp at A&M.
I know you've heard that before, but that was one of the saying.
But he was tough.
And, you know, there's a great respect for the Bulls.
We were wide-eyed about all that.
Now, who was the band director?
Well, we had a, you know, I was never only in the brief marching under the main director.
And I can't remember.
Colonel Adams.
Oh, yeah.
Colonel Adams, yes.
And he was there a long time.
And he was a good man.
I remember him being a good man.
Tried to look after, I kind of remember him trying to help the freshman a little bit.
Did you know Colonel Andy?
No, I did not.
Yeah.
See, I've learned from his son.
how the 12th man may probably have gotten started.
Colonel Andy grew up in Central Tennessee, went his senior year to a prep school where the football coach was a promising young man who later would be the head coach at the University of Texas.
And right now my brain's not recovering his name.
Well, Dad played under the guy that later went to Texas, but that was way back earlier.
Oh, Dana X Bible.
Yeah.
Okay.
All right.
Then when Young Anderson, the year that Young Anderson finishes prep school, Bible gets hired at Mississippi College, a Methodist, I mean a little Baptist school in Clinton, Mississippi.
The senior year that Anderson is there, they're playing what is now Mississippi State, and for the first time ever, they're ahead of them at the half 13-0, but then in the second half, because they had such a small little traveling squad, a bunch of their guys got hurt,
And while they've got nine men on the field and then a few other plays, 10 men, Mississippi State scores and beats them 14 to 13.
I'll be darn.
All right.
According to young Anderson, who now is a retired ophthalmologist, he said his dad told him when they were at that game in Dallas that Coach Bible came over and said, you remember a few years ago when we were at Mississippi College, what happened?
Now, Heine Weir, our running back, hurt his knee in the Texas game, and he may or may not be able to play the whole game.
I see King Gill up there.
Tell him to come down and put on a uniform in case we need him.
I'll be there.
Well, my first... The summer before I got to A&M in 59, I taught at Schreiner College in Gerville, and...
Heine Weir was the dean then.
Well, I'll be there.
And that was the Weir?
Yeah, I'll be there.
And I wish I had known it to say, Mr. Weir, tell me what really happened.
Yeah, tell me your side.
Well, we kind of make the stories as time goes fine.
Sure, sure.
Now, let's see.
You said you didn't have many dates that first year.
No, I don't think I had any.
All right, what about second and third year?
I went steady with a girl from Fort Stockton, but she didn't come down until like junior year or something like that.
Seemed like between being campused and
that we didn't, I didn't have dates down there much.
And more than that, generally I would go to the date on the weekend rather than them coming down, so.
And out of town?
Yeah, generally out of town.
I didn't know any Brown girls.
The football team had all the Brown girls, you know.
Who were the student celebrities while you were a student?
Monty Montgomery was the head Yale leader who's a businessman in Austin.
Boy, you'd think I'd never forget those.
Corps commanders, athletes?
Yeah, the Corps commander was in my campaign, Colonel of the Corps.
What about the athletes?
Athletes were my freshman year with Bob Smith, All-America, and I guess he was sophomore year.
Billy Tidwell, Barton, who I mentioned, or Barton, Griner, Moberg were the line.
Max Griner.
Max Griner, yeah.
Now, did the athletes go to class?
Yeah, I think so, but probably not as much as we had to.
Did you all think that they didn't have to measure up academically?
I think they didn't.
I saw them in class.
Maybe they did.
I really couldn't say that.
I think they probably had tutors and softer courses and stuff.
And some of them were academically inclined, so they went to class.
They wanted to learn.
I guess you had different categories.
Quarterback, Tidwell.
Quarterback was Gartemal.
Dick Gartemal.
What was there at Northgate?
Well, loopholes.
And there wasn't any Dixie Chicken or any of that business.
There wasn't much there.
The post office was actually on campus.
Filling station, couple filling stations, bookstores.
I don't think there was any beer halls at Northgate.
There wasn't.
There wasn't any beer then.
If you wanted alcohol, you had to go out to the, if you wanted whiskey, you went to Whiskey Bridge.
And then beer was
We drank beer at the Triangle, which was kind of a drive-in beer hall, which was right next down to the chicken oil, kind of one of my hangouts there.
We just didn't have a lot of partying.
Make believe I had never seen or heard of this guy Lupo.
Tell me about him.
Well, what a great guy he was.
He was an institution.
He was, I guess, when Pinky died,
loophole but kind of came the next guy that's kind of you know the booster and I went by when I was running for governor to see him on his 80th birthday and he really hadn't changed a lot in the years since I was there as a student.
Did you or any of your acquaintances ever borrow money from him?
I didn't, but a lot did and a lot of furnished books.
I mean, he was a great Aggie supporter.
And it wasn't BS.
He was a great, great Aggie booster.
Probably, you know, absolute top.
And he was not an Aggie graduate, I don't think.
Oh, yes.
Was he?
If I'm not mistaken, he and Mr. Rutter and Tiger Teague were classmates.
Wait, you said graduate.
I don't think he finished his degree.
I just didn't think he did.
I think he attended.
He may have attended in maybe just a little while.
I think that.
Maybe he was just there a little while, but he was an Aggie all the way.
This man, you mentioned Pinky Downs.
Yeah.
What did he do?
I remember Pinky.
See, he was there.
He'd get on the stage.
Little skinny guy.
He'd roll up his sleeve, and he'd get all ready, and he'd lead to Yale's.
And he was kind of an institution.
They always talk about Pinky as the guy that said, with this funeral, this sorry old guy, and nobody wants to say anything.
Well, nobody wants to say a word about the deceased.
I want to say a few words about Texas A&M.
And that was one of her stories.
He was kind of our idol, role model, or institution.
I don't know if I've described the word yet for Lupo and Pinky, but they were our symbol or our booster.
What's the word?
There's a better word for it.
They were, you know, they weren't role models.
They were, because I remember Pinky hearing him say that he was, his job was to welcome people,
and to kind of make them feel proud of the campus, that sort of thing.
Yeah, well, he did.
He did.
But he was tied to the students.
We adored him.
We loved him.
Mascot might be a shallow word.
And Lupo was, of course, probably a little more depth than Pinky, actually.
How often did you and your friends go to Bryan?
Not too often.
Maybe during the spring, you know, football season was pretty well tied until football season was over.
There wasn't much going on day and end.
Maybe after the game, you'd go to a beer hall somewhere.
But by and large, then the spring is when you had more free time, particularly in the band, of course.
And you'd go to Brian's son.
But generally when you'd go, because there weren't any girls, you went further.
You know, there wasn't any date unless you went out with a bunch of boys to
raise cane, you went to another town because that's where the girls are instead of where the boys are.
As this Korean War got worse, did you and your buddies in serious moments talk about the war and what it might mean to you?
Here we are in a military setting.
The big group that made it would get commissions, or most did.
And so your decision was, do I stay or do I volunteer and go now?
And the bulk, I think, probably nearly all of us stayed.
They said, well, if it's going to be a long, we understood the Cold War by that time.
We understood what was happening with Russia.
And so, you know, we were going to go into service.
It was going to be a long deal.
So we said, basically, you were at A&M hoping you'd get a commission as you went to serve your country rather than to be drafted or something like that.
And you were hoping to get a commission in what branch?
In the Air Force.
I was going to fly.
And I did not get a commission.
And that's a little bit of a long story, but basically I laid out one semester, my first semester of my junior year, to help my dad put the farm in level irrigation.
I came back a little out of sync, and at the end of my junior year, they changed the rules and said, if you don't fly,
You can't get a commission in administration.
I'd studied administration.
I didn't like the military enough to want to make a career of it.
Flying was four years, administration was two years.
So I come back and say, well, I don't want to do that.
And so they said, OK, then you can go back and get a commission in the Army, but you have to start over, which would have been one extra year.
So I said, well, I'm not going to do that.
And so I dropped out.
As soon as I dropped out, then they changed it again.
By then it was too late, so I just volunteered for the draft when I got out of A&M.
Got that behind.
Everybody had to serve, so I just served and enlisted me in.
And I really always regretted not getting a commission.
But fate does you some things.
It probably worked out.
for the best for me.
Now, I can't remember any events because I'm in college two years before you.
Can you remember any event, national or international, that happened and you remember where you were when you heard the news?
Well, yeah, MacArthur resigning.
Oh, yes.
I was in, I think it was freshman, in the freshman dorm.
That was probably pretty close to spring then.
And that's when I became a Republican, when Truman fired MacArthur, you know?
And we were all indoctrinated for better or for worse.
Yeah.
Outside of that, I just remember when the, you know, you knew it was pretty serious when the Chinese came in.
We're talking about a war with Russia and China and Korea.
And this is getting pretty serious stuff then.
And that was kind of in the Christmas holidays.
So the holidays were a little confusing.
But do we, you know, what's going to happen?
Do we need to go to war?
Are they going to say you need to go to war?
Do we need to stay and get a study?
so it until it became known what we should do there was uncertainty and a lot of guys just quit and went on in and but the bulk of said no i think our future is best served to stay in school and that's what i did uh summer jobs for you were back home always summer job always work and in the spring and time off my dad bought some land but he wasn't a rancher because he knew there was some water
He'd watch some oil wells be drilled and there was some water west of Fort Stockton.
So he bought the land more as a speculator.
Well, I loved ranching and I loved farming, still do this day.
So he just turned it over to me at a very young age.
Like I'm a freshman in high school and I'm managing an irrigated farm.
So I had so much experience.
that most kids didn't have.
Most kids went to school when they were 18 because that's what you do when you're 18.
And I went to school and said, I need to know how to do a better job.
And I learned more than nearly all my peers because I was thirsty.
I needed to learn that.
So I was a manager in the team.
You know, from 14 years old, I was managing
Had men working for me and things like that.
So yes, always.
And did you have an account in the family business that was your money that you spent at A&M?
Yes, yes.
For example, I didn't work for my dad one year.
I made the cotton money.
I made $1,500 one summer farming cotton.
I mean, you know, you'd make $100 labor.
So I had made money, and I'd run some goats on another festival.
I was entrepreneurial very young, and I had some money.
But I was tight, and I'm still tight.
Were there any...
off-campus celebrities that came to visit A&M while you were there?
Lyndon Johnson came like our junior year to make a talk, but as far as movie stars, anybody, I don't remember.
Did you and your buddies get to see Johnson up close?
No, we were distant, you know, where he made the speech or something like that.
So you didn't, he didn't make much of it?
You know, A&M at that point, 7,000 students, we just weren't all that big an outfit.
I mean, to us we were, and we, our great,
badge of honor in a way was that they never quit or what was the movie you know with the we've never been like we've never been licked yeah and so that was our claim to fame that they made it on the campus and things like that but it wasn't that